---
title: "Note on Fwd: Money Stuff: Crypto Had a Credit Bubble via Josh Beckman"
tags: cryptocurrency
canonical: mailto:reader-forwarded-email/46e102fd3901c766f865cf459d131c96
author: Josh Beckman
author_id: 64845e5575140ef309a3b7dfc833685a
book: 21537620
book_title: "Fwd: Money Stuff: Crypto Had a Credit Bubble"
hide_title: true
highlight_id: 427692946
readwise_url: https://readwise.io/open/427692946
image: https://readwise-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/static/images/article2.74d541386bbf.png
favicon_url: 
source_emoji: ✉️
---

> the crypto industry in 2022 rediscovered the 2008 financial crisis. A quick summary of 2008 is that there was a lot of demand for safe assets, for bonds with AAA ratings. The financial system obligingly manufactured those assets, taking risky assets — mostly subprime mortgages — and packaging and slicing them to achieve AAA ratings. There was so much demand for safe assets that the manufacturing process got sloppy: The subprime mortgages got ever more subprime, the slicing and repackaging got less effective, and ultimately some of the safe assets turned out not to be safe.
> 
> Something like that seems to have happened in crypto but there is a critical difference. In crypto, there are no mortgages to speak of. You cannot really start by taking some somewhat risky cash flows and tranching them to make some of the cash flows safer. There are no cash flows. The safe assets in crypto — interest-bearing accounts at Voyager or Celsius or BlockFi or [Gemini](https://link.mail.bloombergbusiness.com/click/29894564.390153/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZnQuY29tL2NvbnRlbnQvMzI5NzdhOTktYzFjMy00ZjM0LTllY2MtNDA1NzIxN2JmOTc0/630657ea9ad01a9b280f27cbB6e91e112) — are created by making unsecured billion-dollar loans, negotiated in a single phone call, to arbitrage trading firms that are actually just making long-term bets on the marketing abilities of blockchain entrepreneurs. Crypto shadow banks did not manufacture safe assets out of risky investments; they just relabeled the risky investments as safe assets. There were people taking wild speculative risks on brand-new, sentiment-driven crypto projects, and there were people who wanted to invest safely and earn 8%, and they were the same people.
> <div class="quoteback-footer"><div class="quoteback-avatar"><span class="mini-emoji"> ✉️</span></div><div class="quoteback-metadata"><div class="metadata-inner"><span style="display:none">FROM:</span><div aria-label="Josh Beckman" class="quoteback-author"> Josh Beckman</div><div aria-label="Fwd: Money Stuff: Crypto Had a Credit Bubble" class="quoteback-title"> Fwd: Money Stuff: Crypto Had a Credit Bubble</div></div></div></div>