---
title: Note on The Design of Everyday Things via Don Norman
tags: observability error
canonical:
author: Don Norman
author_id: ec929b6466e2ef43eecccee80755ed58
book: 25051458
book_title: The Design of Everyday Things
book_asin: B00E257T6C
hide_title: true
highlight_id: 487681065
readwise_url: https://readwise.io/open/487681065
image: https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/416Hql52NCL._SL200_.jpg
favicon_url:
source_emoji: "\U0001F4D5"
serial_number: 2023.NTS.350
---
> Dealing with Error:
> 
> • Put the knowledge required to operate the technology in the world. Don't require that all the knowledge must be in the head. Allow for efficient operation when people have learned all the requirements, when they are experts who can perform without the knowledge in the world, but make it possible for non-experts to use the knowledge in the world. This will also help experts who need to perform a rare, infrequently performed operation or return to the technology after a prolonged absence.
> 
> • Use the power of natural and artificial constraints: physical, logical, semantic, and cultural. Exploit the power of forcing functions and natural mappings.
> 
> • Bridge the two gulfs, the Gulf of Execution and the Gulf of Evaluation. Make things visible, both for execution and evaluation. On the execution side, provide feedforward information: make the options readily available. On the evaluation side, provide feedback: make the results of each action apparent. Make it possible to determine the system's status readily, easily, accurately, and in a form consistent with the person's goals, plans, and expectations.
> <div class="quoteback-footer"><div class="quoteback-avatar"><span class="mini-emoji"> 📕</span></div><div class="quoteback-metadata"><div class="metadata-inner"><span style="display:none">FROM:</span><div aria-label="Don Norman" class="quoteback-author"> Don Norman</div><div aria-label="The Design of Everyday Things" class="quoteback-title"> The Design of Everyday Things</div></div></div></div>

Documentation/conceptual model, control, and 
Observability