---
title: Note on How to Go to Sleep via Leaflet
tags: breathing
canonical: mailto:reader-forwarded-email/46794dad490518cd6c9e6be9e4bc6e4d
author: Leaflet
author_id: a093f3df6e3335d95b8930544902cfd0
book: 52035325
book_title: How to Go to Sleep
hide_title: true
highlight_id: 897008382
readwise_url: https://readwise.io/open/897008382
image:
favicon_url:
source_emoji: "✉️"
serial_number: 2025.NTE.077
---
> Anyway, the technique consists of breathing in through your nose to a count of four-Mississippi, holding your breath for a count of seven-Mississippi, and then exhaling through pursed lips, in little reverse sips, for a count of eight-Mississippi. You do three cycles. Weil talks about it somewhere online as if it is almost dangerously powerful, as if breathers should be careful not to do too many cycles at one sitting.
> 
> It is effective! For a while, I had the idea of writing a blog post where I rated and evaluated it and other breathing techniques with vocabulary borrowed from reviews of jazz and diabetes medication—riffs and rises and highs and slides—but Weil's 4-7-8 is the only breathing technique I know intimately enough. Paradoxically, while you’re doing it, you notice that early on, your heart rate spikes, I’m not sure why. Maybe some kind of alarm system is triggered by the sudden limitation in oxygen intake? But when you let yourself go, at the end of the third cycle, it’s like you’re on a bike at the top of a hill. You’re speeding down, almost effortlessly, drawn by gravity, and what careens you into sleep, in the end, is the long, slow, gentle coasting that follows.
> <div class="quoteback-footer"><div class="quoteback-avatar"><span class="mini-emoji"> ✉️</span></div><div class="quoteback-metadata"><div class="metadata-inner"><span style="display:none">FROM:</span><div aria-label="Leaflet" class="quoteback-author"> Leaflet</div><div aria-label="How to Go to Sleep" class="quoteback-title"> How to Go to Sleep</div></div></div></div>

The Weil breathing technique to induce calm and reduce anxiety.